Good morning to all who are interested
in our course.
My name is Dmitry Barsukov.
I am a coach and business consultant
and I am dealing with
organizational development
issues and some legal aspects of
entrepreneurial activities.
Our course is called “Legal
Foundations of Entrepreneurship”
and focuses on the main key
points of creating enterprises.
It does not claim to be a depth
or width of coverage and is
intended, first of all,
to help entrepreneurs to navigate
in the jungles of Russian
laws governing business activities.
Therefore, preparing it, I tried
to look at entrepreneurial activities,
the legal issues of entrepreneurial
activities through the eyes
of a simple citizen who
decided to start his business.
So what is entrepreneurship?
The Civil Code gives a clear
and simple definition
of business activity.
Entrepreneurial activity is independent,
carried out at your own
risk and risk, aimed at systematic
earning profits from
the use of property, the sale
of goods, the performance of works,
the provision of services
by persons registered
in this capacity in
the established legal order.
What laws govern
business?
Let us list them briefly.
This is the Civil Code, first
of all, the Tax Code, the Law on
the Limited Liability Company,
the Law on Both Joint Stock
Companies, the Law on Non-
Profit Organizations, the Law
on Licensing, the Customs
Code and some other laws that
are usually used less often
in business activities.
Participants in the relations
regulated by the Civil
Code legislation are
citizens and legal entities.
The rules established
for legal entities in
the part concerning business
activities also
apply to natural persons.
Even if you
are not registered
as an entrepreneur,
but do this, you
are subject
to all relevant laws.
Citizens have the right to
engage in entrepreneurial activities
without forming a legal entity
from the moment of state
registration as an
individual entrepreneur.
In addition, there are such forms
of entrepreneurial activity that
are issued in the form of registration
of a legal entity, this is LLC,
LLC and so on.
And engaging in business activities,
that is, these organizations
can start working from the
moment of state registration.
Let us consider the types
of organizational and legal forms
that are convenient for the implementation
of business activities.
This is, as we have said,
an individual entrepreneur.
The second form, the
most common and the simplest
after the individual
entrepreneur, is a society
bounded by responsibility.
There are also closed joint-stock
companies and various non-
profit organizations.
What are the advantages
of an individual entrepreneur?
First of all, it is easy to register.
The minimum state duty is 400 rubles,
some notarial expenses, the period
of registration is 5 working days,
the minimum set of documents,
certificates of registration
and certificates of the right to apply
one or another type of taxation
if necessary.
In the certificate of registration
is recorded only the name
of the entrepreneur.
No names are allowed.
Previously, this was possible,
but today as the name of
your company will only appear
the name of their fatherland.
The printing only shows
their name.
The legal address
of the entrepreneur is his
home address.
What other points should be
noted in relation to the convenience
of using such an organizational
and legal form as an individual entrepreneur?
First of all, this is convenient not
only in the registration, but also
in the liquidation of an individual entrepreneur.
In Russia, as in the rest of the
world, it is much easier to register
a company than to liquidate it.
In the case of an individual
entrepreneur, this procedure is
easier than in the case
of legal entities.
If the entrepreneur decides that he
no longer wants to engage in his activity
and wants to close his business, then
he, first of all, needs to pay all
taxes, write to the tax inspectorate
the appropriate statement and
file it, or about the suspension
of activities, which
is also possible, or about
liquidation.
If the tax inspectors have no claims
to you on payment of taxes and there
is no reason to check you
seriously, then this procedure
for suspension of activity
or liquidation is actually completed.
In the event of liquidation, you
will be issued a certificate.
An individual entrepreneur
can use several forms of taxation
and reporting.
This is standard taxation, a simplified
system, a patent and a single
tax on the intended income.
What taxes do entrepreneurs
pay in the case of standard taxation?
This is 13% of the amount
of income, reduced
by the amounts of the deductions,
value added tax, 10% or 18%.
10% is the VAT rate that is
usually applied to foodstuffs
and some other groups
of goods.
This is described in Article 145
of the Tax Code.
The single social tax on the income
of the entrepreneur minus the income
of 100 and below according
to the scale provided by the tax code.
And 26% of the single social tax from
the salary fund, if the
entrepreneur employs employees.
These are also some other taxes due
to the specifics of the
activity of a particular entrepreneur.
Customs payments, excise duties,
mineral tax, if you suddenly
decide to mine such,
and some other taxes.
But, as a rule, individual entrepreneurs
rarely carry out such a
complex activity.
Individual entrepreneurs keep
records of income and expenses
in the manner established by the
tax legislation and the law
on accounting.
The procedure for accounting of income and
expenses and economic operations
for individual entrepreneurs is provided
by the order of the Ministry of Finance,
and taxes are accounted for by the accounting
book of income and expenses
of economic operations
of the individual entrepreneur.
This procedure does not apply
to the income of an individual
entrepreneur if he
uses a simplified tax system.
Today, entrepreneurs
rarely use such a
standard tax system.
A much more common
taxation and patents system.
What is a simplified tax system?
It includes two types of taxation.
The first is 6% of the income that
the entrepreneur receives in the form
of gross income.
Such a system of taxation is
convenient for those entrepreneurs
who carry out activities that
do not involve large
significant costs.
These are services, as a
rule, and some other activities.
The second form of taxation in the
simplified system is 15% of the difference
between income and expenses.
This form of taxation is convenient
in trade and production, where
costs are large and constant.
It is necessary to keep in mind that
the expenditure articles, clearly regulated
by the tax code and the tax inspection,
are treated to them quite
strictly.
Therefore, when you introduce
your activity, you need to clearly
document all your expenses
so that you do not have any
disagreements with the tax inspectorate.
If you hire employees, you must
pay 10% in pensions, savings
and insurance contributions
from the salary fund and
0.2% from the salary fund for
injury.
If an individual entrepreneur
does not have any employees,
the persons born in 1966 and
older are obliged to pay a fixed 100
rubles for the insurance
part of the pension.
Persons born in 1967 and younger are
obliged to pay the same 100 rubles
and 50 rubles on the cumulative
part of the pension.
In addition, an individual entrepreneur
under a contract with a pension
fund can voluntarily
increase these amounts of deductions.
In order to use the simplified
tax system, you must
submit the relevant
application when registering
you as an individual
entrepreneur.
If you have already carried out some
activity and decided to move to the
simplified system, then you are
obliged to file a application
to the tax inspectorate from October
1 to November 30 of the previous year,
in which you want to carry out
your activities under the simplified
taxation system.
Income of the taxpayer,
switching to the simplified
system, should not exceed
15 million rubles, multiplied
by the corresponding
coefficients, which
are established
by the government.
The simplified system of taxation
of organizations, the
residual value of funds and non-
material assets exceeds
100 million rubles, as well as
taxpayers listed in Article
246 of the Tax Code of the Russian
Federation, shall not
be applied.
In the current year, the income
of the taxpayer should not
exceed 20 million rubles.
In the event of exceeding this amount
or if the residual value of the assets
and non-material assets exceeds 100
million rubles and the average
number of employees exceeds 100
persons, the taxpayer
is considered to have moved
to the general tax regime
from the beginning of the
quarter in which this excess
was allowed.
Another form of taxation of
individual entrepreneurs
is patent.
It is used widely and can
only be used by individual
entrepreneurs.
If the simplified system can be
applied by individual entrepreneurs
and other legal entities,
then the patent is only applied
by individual entrepreneurs.
A patent is a fixed tax determined
by federal laws and laws of the
constituent entities of the Russian
Federation on certain
types of activities of an
individual entrepreneur.
The cost of a patent is calculated by the
tax authorities according to
the scale established by the laws.
In the case of the application
of the simplified taxation system
by entrepreneurs based on a patent,
they are subject to the norms established
by citizens with the Tax
Code of the Russian Federation.
The individual entrepreneur
should not attract employees.
The patent is convenient
because the entrepreneur
can predict the amount of tax deductions.
He declares to the tax inspectorate the
estimated amounts of income, and the
tax inspectorate calculates the value
of the patent on the basis of
his assumptions.
Single income tax is another
form of taxation
that can be used by both
individual entrepreneurs
and legal entities.
It is mandatory for certain types
of activities and is introduced
with the subjects of the Russian Federation.
Until now, this system is not implemented
in all subjects of the
Russian Federation.
In Moscow, a single tax on the income
is not introduced.
In the Moscow region there
are separate types of activities
that can be carried out and
taxed on the basis of a single
tax on income.
In many Russian subjects this
type of taxation was also not
introduced.
And most importantly, what I would
like to note in the activity
of an individual entrepreneur, what
is its great advantage.
An individual entrepreneur, having
paid the imposed taxes, the
remaining profit with a calm
soul can put itself in the pocket
as his legal income.
No more to pay anyone.
He can do this arbitrarily, on time,
the most important thing is that the
money remains on the tax.
At the same time, the participants
of the company, shareholders of the joint-
stock company and participants
of other types of business activities,
having received their dividends
after payment of 8% income tax.
Compare, an entrepreneur pays
13% on income tax under the
standard tax system,
and an enterprise, a legal
entity, pays 24% on the income
tax of enterprises.
The difference is substantial.
Also compare 6% of income or 15% of
the difference between income
and expenses with the simplified
tax system and 6 -9% of the balance.
Also called feel the difference.
It is much more convenient to
get your income without thinking about
any risks, consequences, than
in some ways to draw profits,
like minimizing your expenses.
This is a significant advantage
of such a form of business
activity as an individual entrepreneur.
However, individual entrepreneurs
have some disadvantages.
This is primarily liability,
VAT deductions and the status
of an individual entrepreneur.
Responsibility of the
individual entrepreneur.
The individual entrepreneur is
liable for all his obligations to
all the property belonging to him.
That is, if you have collected loans,
collected goods and somehow your activities
have not worked out, and you have
understood that you will have to
close your business, then if
you cannot pay for your obligations,
then in court, the judicial
authorities have the right
to describe your property.
There are some exceptions,
some optimistic notes.
It is that you are not
subject to recovery of
property that is vital
and without which you can
not do.
This is the only housing if you do
not have a second apartment,
and the car necessary for
moving if you do not have a
second, and up to some products,
the minimum of products that
are necessary for your life activity.
They cannot be reimbursed.
At the same time, it is necessary to
keep in mind that the property acquired
by the spouses in the joint
life is joint property.
And if you are registered
as an individual entrepreneur
and you are being fined,
then it will be imposed and
on all your property your
second spouse is not an
individual entrepreneur.
The second feature of
the relationship of the individual
entrepreneur with contractors and
partners is VAT deduction.
What is the essence here?
The fact is that most of
the time individual entrepreneurs
are not VAT payers.
In this regard, those enterprises
that are VAT payers, buying
products from such an individual
entrepreneur, cannot reduce
the amount of VAT they
are obliged to pay as
a tax to the state.
This situation arises in
entrepreneurs who operate under
a simplified taxation system and
on the basis of a patent
and on the basis of a single
tax on the tax.
Let us look at the example.
For example, you
are a VAT payer.
In the first quarter, the revenue
was 110 rubles, including 10
rubles VAT.
In the same period, you purchased
products for 55 rubles, including
VAT 5 rubles.
You can take these 5 rubles to deduct.
That is, you will have to
pay the state 10 rubles minus
5 and that 5 rubles of
value added tax.
This is a matter of course,
as long as you and your supplier
are VAT payers.
If your supplier is an organization
or an individual entrepreneur
who is not a VAT payer,
then you can not accept these
5 rubles of VAT as deductions.
In this case, you will
have to pay a total of 10 rubles
of value added tax.
The essence of the question here
is that by the idea of organizations
that are not VAT payers, should
not include in the final value
of their products for
buyers this value
added tax.
That is, their products should be cheaper
for this amount.
But life shows that everyone wants to
sell more expensive, and the
prices of organizations that
run a simplified taxation
system are not different from the
prices of organizations and individual
entrepreneurs who keep their
accounting according to the
usual system.
Thus, your buyer is forced
to pay higher taxes than
in the situation when he
as a contractor has
VAT payers.
You can convince him that it is profitable
for him to work with you by only
lowering the price of his products.
Another important point in relation
to the advantages and disadvantages
of such an organizational form
as an individual entrepreneur
is the status.
The fact is that for some types
of business, for some contractors,
your status has a certain
importance.
Then, when your entire business
is built on your name, built on your
authority, and you don’t need to
hire a large number of employees, when
the scale of your business is not large,
then the status of an individual
entrepreneur is quite convenient.
But when your business reaches
a certain size, and when your
partners and contractors are large
organizations, then often the
status of an individual entrepreneur
does not satisfy them.
It is difficult to deal
with an individual entrepreneur.
There is a similar opinion
among some entrepreneurs,
some executives and business
owners.
We have considered the main aspects
related to the specifics
of entrepreneurial activity
as an individual entrepreneur.
The most common legal
form of entrepreneurial
activity is a limited
liability company.
What is his advantage?
A limited liability company
differs from an individual entrepreneur
in that the participants of the
company are liable for its
obligations only in the amount
of the value of their contributions
to the company’s authorized
capital.
If the company’s authorized
capital is 10 thousand rubles,
this is the minimum amount
set to date, then your liability
is determined by this size,
that is, 10 thousand rubles.
You personally, as the founder
of the company, cannot be penalized
for your personal property,
nor for your spouse’s property.
As I said, the amount of
the company’s capital cannot
be less than 10,000 rubles.
The maximum amount of the company’s
capital is not limited.
Payment of the company’s
capital is possible in money
and property.
When paying with money, this operation
is very simple.
After the establishment of the company or
before the submission of the tax documents
to the inspection, you are obliged to pay
the amount of money specified
in the charter documents to the company's
account.
You can contribute 50% of the capital
at the beginning, the remaining 50% can
be contributed during the year.
The second form of established
capital is property.
This operation can also
be quite simple.
If your capital, formed by the
property, does not exceed 20
thousand rubles, then you, together
with your partners or you personally,
if you are the sole founder
of the company, have the right to
independently assess your
contribution.
For example, if you contribute
a pen to the company’s established
capital, then you can
make a corresponding estimate that
I estimate this pen at 20 thousand
rubles, and thus your established
capital will be formed.
And no one can challenge this
assessment, and no one will
do it, as practice shows.
No one needs it because it is
a very small amount of established
capital.
The same is true if there are
several partners in the society,
you can agree that you contribute a
pen and your partner contribute
a notebook, and if you both are
satisfied, then your established
capital will be formed in this way.
If your capital, contributed
by the property, its value exceeds
20 thousand rubles, then you
must contact an independent valuator.
The value of the property contributed
by the established capital cannot be
higher than the value determined
by the independent appraiser.
Compared to closed joint-
stock companies, the
law on limited liability
companies is simpler
and gives entrepreneurs more
freedom in shaping the
principles of the company's
work and management.
The participant has the right to leave
the company at any time, regardless of
the consent of other participants.
The company is obliged to pay
such a participant the value
of the company's assets, proportional
to the size of his share in the
company.
This point is, on the one hand,
the advantage of a limited liability
society, and on the other hand, the
disadvantage.
Because if your business has a certain
size, if your business size largely
determines the possibility of
making a profit, then such a
sharp reduction in the assets of
the company, for example, when
the membership of the founder, who
had 50 percent in the society,
is left, it can be critical for
the further activity of the society,
that is, your business is reduced
by 50 percent, it
can be very unpleasant
and painful.
At the same time, there is another
disadvantage of a limited liability
company, if you want to change the
composition of the members
of the company, you need
to apply to the tax inspectorate, that
is, to submit documents there and
wait for the due period for
their state registration.
And until the time of state
registration, you often can’t
take any action with your
new partners.
The next legal form, which
is most often used
for business
activity, is a closed
joint-stock company.
A joint-stock company is a commercial
organization, a charter and a capital
that is divided into a certain
number of shares certifying
the obligatory rights of its
participants.
The members of a limited
liability company
may be one person
or several persons.
If the number of shareholders exceeds
50, then it is already a company, an open
joint-stock company.
If the number of shareholders is
less than 50, it is a closed
joint-stock company.
If the participant, founder
of a joint-stock company is
the sole person, the
constituent documents are
only the charter.
The sole shareholder makes a written
decision on the establishment of
a company, in which he says that I am
such a company, I have decided to create
a company, to name it such a company,
and it will have such a
legal address.
It adopts a charter containing all the
necessary points that reflect the
specifics of its activities.
What are the advantages of
a shareholding company?
Shareholders are not liable
for the obligations of the company,
as in limited liability companies,
and bear the risk of losses
related to its activities
within the value of the
shares belonging to them.
Shareholders of the company have the
right to alienate their own shares without
the consent of other shareholders of the company.
What does this mean?
This means that you can sell
your shares to whom you want and
when you want.
The only limitation here is that
you are obliged before selling
shares to a third party to offer
to buy them to other shareholders.
This is a mandatory rule in
a closed joint-stock company.
Another notable advantage of
a joint-stock company is that a joint-
stock company does not need
to apply to the tax inspection,
to submit some documents there
when changing shareholders.
That is, if you wanted to sell
your shares to someone,
then this operation is done,,
in your office literally in
half an hour.
A mandatory condition for a transaction
to buy and sell shares is that
your issuance of shares must be
registered with the Federal
Service for the Securities Market.
Without such registration, all transactions for
the purchase and sale of shares are null and null.
This is a discomfort and additional
cost for the founders of
a joint-stock company.
But you must assess yourself, what is
convenient for you, how important
for you are these advantages that this
organizational legal form gives.
So, the transaction made
with shares is usually due to
several documents.
The contract of sale of shares and
changes to the register of shareholders.
That is, on the basis of the contract
of sale to the register of shareholders,
which lists all persons holding
shares of the company, the corresponding
records should be made and
the new owner of shares should
be issued a extract from
this register, which should
be listed the number of shares
he owns and their value.
The shareholder may not demand
the company to repay its shares,
except in special cases
stipulated by law.
What does this mean for the participants in society?
This means that if you invested your
funds in a certain company,
you can not return them otherwise
than by selling them to another
person, the one who is
interested in those shares.
In order to sell, they
must have value for
the buyer.
And this is only possible when your
business is sufficiently developed,
sufficiently transparent, and the buyer
understands what profit it can bring.
If you, working, developing this business,
have not reached the corresponding
indicators of profitability,
then you are unlikely to be able
to sell these shares to someone, and
so you will have nothing to do,
either continue to work and develop
this enterprise, or depart from
business, counting on dividends
in the future.
But anyway, it all depends on the value
of the shares, on the profitability of the company.
There are certain situations
stipulated by law in which you can
demand the redemption of your shares.
For example, if the general meeting
of shareholders, which is
the top management body of the
company, voted for a major deal,
and you were against that deal,
then you can demand that
the shareholders, the
company, to buy your shares.
There are several other situations
similar to this.
These are specified in the Act
on Stock Companies.
In general, the law on a joint-
stock company differs from the law
on a company in that it is clearly
and detailed enough, and it describes
all sorts of situations, relationships
of shareholders.
The rights of shareholders are
protected.
In this sense, it is one of the
most modern Russian laws, which
is in accordance with the world
standards.
What are the disadvantages
of this legal form?
As we have already said, from the point
of view of registration of a joint-stock
company, having passed state registration
with the tax inspectorate, it is obliged
to register the issuance of shares
in the federal service for the
securities market.
Without this registration, all transactions
with shares are void and
you may be fined.
This procedure is quite complicated, and
lawyers are unlikely to be able to cope with it.
The state duty is quite high, 10 thousand
rubles, and legal companies
specialists take about 10 thousand
rubles for this service too.
Thus, your costs for completing
all registration procedures for
a joint-stock company are significantly
higher than in limited
liability companies.
Let us consider the general provisions
for LLCs and closed joint-stock
companies that unite them.
We will not consider open-
source companies because
we are talking about
small, medium-sized.
An open joint-stock company is
a company with more than 50
members.
This legal form
is usually used for
large organizations.
And in those situations when it is necessary
to attract funding in the open market.
So what unites OOO and ZAO?
This is the same system
of accounting and taxation
structure under the
usual taxation system.
That is, 24% of the income tax, 2.2%
of the property tax, 18 or 10% of
VAT, 26% of the rate of the
single social tax from the salary
fund and 2.2% from the salary
fund depending on the type
of activity for injury.
There are a number of taxes that are
determined by the specifics of your activity.
With the simplified
tax system, as in the case
of an individual entrepreneur,
it is simple accounting
and minimum taxes, which
we have already talked
about.
When registering the state duty
for the LLC, and for the LLC, and
for all other legal entities,
is 2000 rubles.
All registration forms can be found
on the website of the tax services, in
particular in Moscow on the website
of the.ru bridge tax or reference
information bases such as Guarantor,
Consultant.
The term of registration of legal entities
and LLC, and ZOO, and other by law
is collated in five working days.
In Moscow, this period
has been extended to 7
days.
The essential factor,
the significant, if you can
so express, the disadvantage
of any legal form of a
legal entity, is a complex
and long liquidation procedure.
It entails, in addition
to multiple and quite complex procedures,
a full tax check for the last
three years of the enterprise
since the time the tax
inspection was filed for
the liquidation of the company.
As you probably guess, passing
such a check of pleasure
is small with the approach of
our tax authorities, when they
try to get stuck for something,
at least for something to
charge you some fines and pennies.
The company is liable for
its obligations to
all its property.
Therefore, if your organization has not
managed to deal with some
liabilities, then having some assets
in the balance sheet, you risk
breaking up with them.
The company, as well as the limited
liability company,
is not liable for the obligations
of its members.
Your personal life is your personal life,
the activities of society.
The appointed body of management
of a joint-stock company and a limited
liability company is the general
meeting of the participants or
shareholders.
There are many parallels in the regulations
for the convening and working of the general
meeting of the company and the joint-stock
company, although these regulations
in closed joint-stock companies
are more detailed and many points
are written more strictly and clearly.
The size of the capital and the methods
of its formation for the company and for
the joint-stock companies are also the same.
Another factor that
unites all legal
entities is the need
to have a legal
address.
This expression is usual.
The legislation provides for a different
formulation of the
location of the legal entity.
It must be stated in the constituent
documents of the organization.
The location of a legal entity
is determined by its state registration.
That is, if you are registered
in Moscow, then the location
of your company, it naturally
has some Moscow address.
The location of a legal entity
is considered the location
of its sole executive body.
The place where your director
works.
Unfortunately, the Russian practice
is rather unpleasant for
entrepreneurs in relation to
this legal address.
The fact is that, as you perfectly
understand, any enterprise,
any organization in the process
of its activity can repeatedly
change its office and this can
be due to a variety of reasons.
The staff increased or decreased,
rates, rent and so on and
so on changed.
And the legislation, unfortunately,
obliges taxpayers, obliges organizations
every time when changing the location
of the organization to
make changes to the constituent
documents.
This is quite a ridiculous situation,
because you can change your
office several times a year.
Maybe this happens.
And every time you ideally should
run to the tax inspectorate and
make changes to the charter documents.
In practice, most organizations
have a formal legal address,
supported by some formal
contract concluded with
some organization, with
the owner of some premises.
Having such a legal address, they move
from one office to another and
do not submit information about this
to the tax inspectorate.
And tax inspections look through their
fingers at this, then in order to
increase the collection of taxes or
when some new directions and trends
appear, they periodically
start to shake entrepreneurs
again in connection with this
legal address and demand that
the location of the organization
corresponds to its actual address.
The address at which he is currently
working.
And then taxpayers are forced
to look again for ways to get
out of the situation.
But you may be told that you
will work for a long time and
with a formal legal address.
But if the tax authority
wants, it will force you to change
it by blocking the account and
applying other preventive administrative
measures.
Let us now consider another type
of organizations, which are
also widely used by entrepreneurs,
although they are called
non-profit organizations.
A non-profit organization
is an organization that does not
have profit as its main purpose
of activity and does not distribute
profit among its members.
This wording is taken directly
from the law.
The law believes that non-
profit organizations can be
created to some social, charitable
goals and the like.
Although in practice, for example,
all educational institutions, even commercial,
in Russia are registered
as non-profit organizations,
but the owners created them
precisely for the purpose of
earning profit.
In general, educational
activities are quite
profitable and quite
commercial.
But why is it that our state and our
licensing bodies have an approach
to educational organizations
that they require that an organization
that wants to provide educational
services has such
an organizational and
legal form in the form
of a non-profit organization.
We will only talk about those non-
profit organizations, organizations
that do not belong to the category
of public organizations.
As a matter of fact, social movements,
social foundations, political movements,
religious movements and the like.
The organizations we will consider
are simple non-profit funds,
autonomous non-profit organizations,
institutions and
partnerships.
The law on non-profit organizations
states that a non-profit
organization can only carry
out business activities insofar
as it serves you can engage
in some commercial activity
in order to direct the profits
received to the purposes
for which the organization
was created.
That is, say, for the purpose of developing
education or for the purpose of conducting
a gas pipeline to the country parks,
in some country partnership.
This can be any activity
that brings profit.
This is the production of some
goods and the provision of some services
and so on and so on.
In fact, any activity that is
carried out by ordinary commercial
organizations.
Thus, if you follow the letter
of the law, the organizational and
legal form of non-profit organizations
is not intended for doing
business.
But, as is known, reality differs
from legislation and entrepreneurs
then, when such an organizational
legal form is convenient for
them, they use it for their
purposes.
A distinctive feature of non-
profit organizations is also
that, in addition to the profits
derived from commercial activities,
the sources of the formation
of property of the non-
profit organization can be regular
and one-off receipts from
founders and voluntary
property contributions and
donations.
These money receipts, if they are spent
for the chartered purposes of
the organization, do not
have any taxes.
In different situations, this is
quite convenient and, for example,
when you are actually engaged in some
activity aimed at achieving some
there, social benefits for some
group of people who have joined,
you can accept membership
contributions, you can peacefully,
freely accept some donations,
and if you will spend them for
the purposes for which the
organization is created,
then you will not have
any tax obligations.
The main thing is that it
is documented, clearly, properly
documented, so that the tax
inspectorate has no reason
to make claims to you.
In other situations, the
commercial activities of a
non-profit organization are
taxed according to the same system
as the activities of any LLC,
for example.
The procedure for registration
of a non-profit organization differs
from the registration of other legal
entities in that the documents for registration
are filed not to the tax inspection,
but to the registration
service of the Ministry
of Justice of the Russian Federation.
Non-profit organizations are
registered longer than
those registered
by the tax inspectorate.
On average, it takes about a month from
the moment of submission of the documents
for registration.
In terms of the formation of statutory
documents, the legislation
gives quite wide opportunities for
the establishment of the
principles of management of a non-
profit organization, and this
is a certain convenience.
You can quite freely describe those
principles that are important to
you and correspond to the specifics
of your activity to the maximum
extent possible.
The next aspect
of business activity
that cannot be stopped
is licensing.
The types of activities that
are subject to licensing are
determined by the law on
licensing of certain types of activities.
He is called so.
It contains general
provisions on licensing.
More detailed regulations and
procedures described by regulatory
acts of relevant bodies and agencies.
The main activities subject
to licensing are listed
in Article 17 of the Licensing Act.
Today, the list of these activities
has been significantly reduced
and much fewer business
types are subject to licensing
than it was five years
ago.
For example, this is licensing
pharmaceutical activities, manufacturing
of medicines, licensing
of banking operations, and
so on.
By the way, such activities
as banking, exchange
activities and activities
in the field of
alcohol production are
not regulated.
In general, it is regulated not in
legal licensing, but by separate
normative legal acts.
These laws contain the basic
provisions on licensing each
of the listed activities.
Small business is another aspect
that directly affects
everyone who wants to engage
in entrepreneurial activities.
Until recently, the status of a small
enterprise gave certain advantages
to entrepreneurs.
But with the simplified tax system,
these advantages have come
to them.
Previously, only organizations
registered as small business
entities could work
on the simplified tax system.
This right is granted to any
organization.
Therefore, among the advantages that
this status gives, the
preferential rate for renting municipal
real estate remains the most significant
to date and is determined
by specific legislative
and regulatory acts of federal
subjects and municipal
bodies.
Small business entities
may be commercial organizations,
mainly capital, whose
share of legal entities
does not exceed 25 percent.
If the founders or shareholders
of the company are legal
persons, they must own no more
than 25 percent of shares
or shares in the company.
In addition, the average
number of employees of the
small business entity may
not exceed certain values
set by legislation.
Subjects of small business
are understood as individuals
engaged in entrepreneurship,
i.e. individual entrepreneurs,
and organizations that
decided to obtain such status
and corresponding
requirements.
Let us now consider such an important
part of business activity as
the relationship of business
partners.
Unfortunately, the culture
of interaction, the culture
of partnership in Russia
today is not sufficiently developed,
and in this connection
there are many unpleasant situations.
Partnership in business is very
close to relationships in family life.
Unfortunately, we have to
observe situations when friends,
friends, relatives,
spouses start some business
and when it comes to getting
some significant
profits, there are difficult
conflicts between them.
Therefore, one of the very important
rules when creating a business in
partnership with someone else is the following.
When planning a relationship, think about divorce.
When planning some joint activity,
planning some joint business,
you must from the beginning very
clearly, very responsible and
thoughtfully approach all aspects
that relate to leaving the
business, which relate
to situations when your ways with
partners differ.
And here you need to be guided by
the rules that the word not written
is a lie.
You will be proofing each other
for a long time who meant what,
who said what, who thought what,
if you did not write it down in the
charter documents or in the form
of some other document, even
some informal agreement between
you.
So let’s consider partnership
in a limited liability
society.
If a company is founded by one person,
then, as we have already said, the
charter approved by that person
is the founder of the company document.
In the event of an increase in the
number of members of the company to two
or more, the constituent agreement between
them must be concluded, and the partnership
of the participants shall be
determined by this constituent agreement
and the charter of the company.
In the founding contract of the company,
the founders undertake to create
the company and determine the procedure
for their interaction with this institution.
That is, it can be written who is obliged
to do what when creating
a society, who is performing
what procedures.
The constituent contract shall also determine
the size of the authorized capital, the
ratio of shares between the participants,
the size and composition of the contributions
they make, the way in which these contributions
were made by property or money,
and the procedure for their introduction
into the principal capital of
the company at its establishment.
There can also be described the liability
of the founder of the company for
violation of the conditions and the
order of distribution of these duties
between the founders and violation of
the order, distribution of profits
between the participants.
In addition, it stipulates the composition
of the organs of the society and the procedure
for the members to leave the society.
The contribution to the company’s
capital may be money, securities,
other things or property
rights that have monetary
valuation.
That is, as we said, you can contribute
to the principal capital both
money and a loved other asset
that can be valued in money.
If the nominal value of the share
of the participants in the main
capital of the company, paid not with
a monetary contribution, is more
than 200 minimum wage amounts, today
it is 20 thousand rubles, then such
a contribution, as we have already
said, should be assessed by independent
assessors.
A contribution, not a monetary
contribution, to the principal
may be transferred both
for indefinite use and for temporary use.
In other words, a teaching contract
may stipulate that a participant
in a company transfers to him
some property or some intangible
asset for a certain period
of time.
The value of use of this asset is the
contribution of the participant
in the company’s charter capital.
After this period, the participant has
the right to take his contribution, take
his property, and at the same time he
must not contribute anything in return.
If he decides to take his contribution
before the expiry of the specified
period, he is obliged to provide
the company with its replacement
or monetary compensation,
which will allow the company
to use some other property
necessary for his activities.
In addition to the teaching contract,
the relationship of partners is determined
by the charter of the company.
In general, the charter of the society
is the most important document,
and it contains all the basic
provisions on the order of
the company and on the relationship
of partners.
It should contain a certain set of
items, which is determined by the law,
that is, the law has a clear list
of the provisions of the charter,
which must be included in it.
The main information is the location,
the full shortened company name
of the company, the composition
and competence of the management
bodies, the procedure for making
decisions, including on issues
that are adopted unanimously
at the meeting of the participants
of the company.
The charter also records the rights and obligations
of the participants of the company, information about
the procedure and consequences of the withdrawal
of the participant from the company and
information about the procedure for the
transfer of share in the company to other persons.
These are the most fundamental
points.
In addition, other information
may be included that is not contrary
to the legislation of the Russian
Federation.
The relationship is defined by
the charter of a limited liability company.
One of the specific aspects of relationships
are the rights and duties of
the participants of society.
Unfortunately, in legal practice,
this part of the charter is
not given sufficient attention
to this part of the charter.
Although it has, in my opinion, an
important importance, first of all in
the relationships of partners
involved in business.
The fact is that in the charter of the
company may be written some obligations
of the participants of the company on
its activities.
For example, one member of the
company is obliged to regularly
obtain licenses necessary for
the company's work, the other
is obliged to interact
with local authorities,
to obtain some permits
from them.
Another participant may take
on the responsibility to conduct
even a marketing research.
And if it is written in the charter
of the company, if in the charter of
the company you write what consequences
does not fulfill these duties
to the participants of the society
for it, then your relations with other
partners will be more understandable,
simple and transparent.
This can also be related to the
distribution of profits, the
distribution of dividends.
Unfortunately, in the practice
of legal this issue is very poorly worked
out, and the precedents are also
very difficult to find, but the
law allows these aspects, these
moments to write, and they can
actually facilitate the relationship
between partners, can
settle them in a civilized way.
For example, if one of the participants
of the company for some reason
did not fulfill the duties that
were assigned to him in the
charter, then when the case comes
to the distribution of dividends,
other participants can make
claims to him, say that
you did not fulfill such duties.
The company has incurred
such costs.
It was for example forced
to pay some other company for obtaining
a license for certain
activities.
These expenses, since you should
have dealt with this matter, we
deduct from your dividends.
And if all these aspects, if the order
of making such a decision and the
grounds for it are clearly prescribed
in the charter of the society, then you
will not have a conflict, and the participant
in the society will have to
agree to such a situation.
Therefore, when creating a society,
when you agree on interaction,
who and how will work on the development
of society, it is desirable
to write all these moments
as clearly and in detail
as possible.
The next aspect that should reflect the
charter are management, management
issues and the distribution of
the income of the society in this
regard.
What is meant here?
The charter of the company
prescribes the procedure for the adoption
of decisions by the general
meeting and prescribes the
powers of the sole executive body
of the company.
That is, the breadth of the powers
of the general director you want to
grant him is determined by the
provisions of the charter.
And this too needs to be thought about.
Also, the distribution of income,
as it is determined by your shares,
you must also think in advance of
who has what share in the society,
depending on what contribution
he makes to the activities
of the society.
For example, here the situation can
be as follows that one participant in
the company contributes some
material assets to the charter
capital, and the other contributes
his knowledge and skills.
And this knowledge and skills are
so significant that another participant
in society can agree that his share
will be somehow changed in favor
of the person who will be engaged
in the management and
development of society.
And thus, there may be a redistribution
of income between participants
in a certain way depending
on their contributions.
If any of the participants
of the company decided to withdraw
from the company, he
can do so at any time by writing
a statement to the management
of the company and other
participants.
The company in this situation is obliged
to pay the value of the company's assets,
the proportional share of this
participant in the company.
It is obliged to do so within
six months after the end of the
financial year in which such a
statement was written.
That is, if you filed a request to withdraw
from the members of the company in
June, then you will have to
wait for the end of the calendar
and financial year.
The same is true of our financial
accounting system.
And the company will be obliged
to pay your share within the
next six months.
As I said, it can be quite
painful for society.
Here you can provide some milder
options for paying a share to
the member of the society.
Another aspect of the partnership is
the procedure for transferring
a share of the main capital of the company
to a third party.
The participants of the society may,
by agreement between themselves,
prescribe this order in different ways.
The OJSC law offers a wide
range of possibilities.
You can write in the law that the
members of the company have the
right to sell their share only to other
members, and you can write that to
any third parties.
This depends on your specific
situation, on the nature
of the relationship
between your company’s partners.
Now consider all the main aspects
of partnership in a closed joint-
stock company.
In a closed joint-stock company,
when it is created by more than
one person, a constituent agreement
is also concluded.
It also describes the order of actions
of shareholders to create a company,
the procedure for payment of shares and
their rights and responsibilities
to create a company.
The constituent contract is
not the constituent document of
a joint-stock company and is not
registered by the
registration body.
There are no stamps and stamps
of the tax inspectorate.
The constituent document of
a joint-stock company is the charter.
As I said before, the law on
joint-stock companies is the most
modern regulatory act and it clearly
regulates the mutuality of shareholders
and shareholders of
the company.
It describes and regulates
the various aspects of shareholders’
relationships that define
their rights and obligations.
As in the UN, the most important
points in the partnership in
the CIS are the following.
This is the procedure for convening meetings
and making decisions by shareholders’
meetings, the regulations of the executive
body of the company and the procedure
for the transfer of shares to new owners.
Of course, the law on joint-stock
companies is much broader, but these
are the most important points that
concern the relations of partners
in small joint-stock companies.
If there are many shareholders in
your company, then of course there
are many other items of the law on
joint-stock companies that are
important and they should be
described in detail and clearly
in your charter and reflect, to
the extent permitted by the law,
the specifics of your relationships,
the specifics of your
company's activities.
Let us consider some typical
situations in the relationship
of partners in LLC and CAA.
The first situation is as
follows.
The partners agreed to create
a new company and formed
the minimum authorized
capital in cash or property.
The statutory capital is 10 thousand
rubles.
The main resource in creating and knowledge
and skills of partners.
And here they start working.
They agreed in advance that they all
participate together in the management
and development of society.
They initially agreed so.
Society is registered, real
life begins and often it
turns out that one of the partners,
let’s say, we have three
partners.
The two partners really
work, work, weigh and put
a lot of effort into which
the society can truly
develop successfully and
certain financial
indicators.
A year, say, or two, and at this point
a third participant of the society
appears, which was originally wanted,
and so the partners agreed, but
for some reason, in fact, did not
participate in the development
of the society.
He comes and says, well, where is the profit?
Let us share.
Two other men are in shock.
Where have you been all that time?
We wasted, you did nothing and now you
demand a portion of the profit.
Would you go somewhere?
No, I will not go.
This third party is correctly
stated.
You are obliged to pay me
the part of my profit in the form
of dividends.
And in this situation, the other
two partners will have nothing
to do but to pay
the legal part of the profit.
Therefore, in order to avoid such
a situation, partners must, in advance,
agree on the creation of the company,
provide for it and write it down
in their constituent documents.
They may write in the charter
the grounds on which a member of the
society may be excluded from the society.
These grounds must be clear, clear,
transparent in order for you to
be able to justify them in court.
According to the law on limited liability
companies, a member of the
company can be excluded from
the company only by a court
decision.
If you do not write the grounds for the exclusion
in the charter, then with a high degree
of probability the court will not exclude
your partner from the members
of the society.
If you do this, if you
write down these reasons,
then you have very high chances
of success.
Very common is also the situation
when the participants of society due
to insufficient corporate culture
in Russia also start to make claims
to each other, when, for example,
one participant of the society made
some substantial material contribution
to the society, and took much more
active part in the management
of the society or,, even
was directly the general director,
say, the society, and he is
so, purely in life, it becomes
offended that I am a
pasture, and the other partner
only there some machine or
some equipment contributed
to the main capital of
the society.
Why should the society pay such
a large dividend?
This position is, of course,
wrong, because a society with such a significant
contribution to the investment capital
would hardly have been able to develop
successfully.
After all, you knew in advance that another
participant contributes this property, these
assets, and they are really needed
by the company for work, for development.
Therefore, it is necessary to immediately
take this into account and treat it as due.
On the other hand, if you believe
that your contribution to the development
of the company is so heavy that
you should receive more
rewards, more income from its activities
than it can be due to the dividends
that are distributed, then you should
agree with the other partner
that you receive the appropriate
reward in the form of
salary or in the form of bonuses,
clearly linked to the amounts of
profits that the company
receives from your activities,
and thus you can balance the
level of income of yours
and your partner, who made a significant
material contribution or
a significant contribution
in the form of some assets
to the society.
And, of course, this is a matter
of your arrangements, that is,
you must reach an agreement with
your partners here, you must
reach an agreement on this issue.
The next point, which I would like
to pay attention to, is that people
who are going to engage in entrepreneurial
activities, people who want
to be owners of a certain business,
must independently study
all the regulatory legal acts
directly related to their
business, reflecting the
specifics of their business.
There are not as many as we have
said to you, and the regulations
that directly relate to your situation
are even less than we have mentioned.
So don’t think of the labor to
study them, because no one better than
you will take care of the well-
being of your business.
This will not allow other people
you interact with to manipulate
you, to mislead you, because
unfortunately, such
situations do not occur
as rarely as you would
like.
And the better you know these
normative legal acts, the
more confident you will
feel in the various
situations you will have to face.
Now let’s look at the issues related
to the company.
First of all, these are the issues
of labor relations between
business owners and employees.
When hiring employees, as you
all know, they must be employed
by contracts that should cover
all aspects of your relationship
with respect to the performance
of certain duties of
employees of your company.
The citizen working under a labor contract
is guaranteed the rights
established by federal laws,
and these rights of employees
are sufficiently well protected.
In a certain way, it can
be said that employees are more
protected from the
employer than the employer
from employees.
Therefore, the question of labor relations
also needs to be paid a lot of attention
and not to forget about the fundamental
points of these relationships.
In addition, for violations of
labor legislation, especially
for some gross violations, which
are stipulated by
the Code on Administrative
Offences, criminal liability
is provided.
Labor contracts may be concluded
for an indefinite period and for a
certain period, but not more than
five years.
For an indefinite period of time,
you must conclude contracts with
almost all employees carrying the
main and quite ordinary work
duties in your company.
For a certain period of time, the
employment contract is concluded with
the CEO, his deputy officers, the
chief accountant and some other employees
and the list of which is in the
Labor Code and these are not so typical
situations, as a rule, which can
reflect some specificity
of your business and hiring
personnel in connection with
this.
In the usual situation, which
is the most common, the list of
employees with whom a term contract
can be concluded is
limited to these listed persons.
There is a possibility for the conclusion
of temporary employment contracts
with those companies that have received
the status of small enterprises.
This status entails the possibility
of wider application of fixed-
term employment contracts.
This can be regulated
and regulated by
other legal acts.
They need to be acquainted
before signing such agreements.
The next important aspect of labor
relations is the material responsibility
of employees.
Material liability
applies to all employees
who deal with some
values.
In the process of work, these
values may be lost in some way.
There are two types of liability:
complete and incomplete.
Incomplete material
liability extends to those
employees who deal with
these values.
With all other employees
who are constantly working
with material values,
a full liability agreement
can be concluded.
In addition to the contract
of employment, there is a separate
contract on full material liability.
Such employees, for example,
include the CEO, chief accountant,
deputy officers, all
sorts of countermen,
shippers, and so on.
In the process of working with
material values, if a certain
employee for some reason lost
material values, damaged
some values, he will bear full
material responsibility for them.
Damage under such liability may
be recovered from the employee in
the event that the amount of damage
caused does not exceed the employee's
average monthly earnings, can
be recovered by the employer's order.
Such an order may be made no later
than one month from the date of
final determination by the employer
of the amount of damage caused
by the employee.
If the monthly period has expired or the
employee does not agree to voluntarily
compensate the employers for
the damage caused, and the amount of the
damage exceeds the employee's average monthly
earnings, such material damage shall
be reimbursed by court decision.
Unfortunately, employers in
situations of material damage
are not sufficiently protected by our legislation.
There can be many different situations,
and there can be many different
situations.
For example, a rather characteristic
situation describing the
unprotectedness of the employer
is as follows.
When the shipper, having received
cash in his hands to purchase some
material values, calls the employer
and says that he went for these values,
there was some unpleasant incident,
he was robbed, the values
were taken away.
At the same time, the employee, having
turned to the police and having
made a statement that he was robbed
or he accidentally lost or eroded
material values under some
unforeseen circumstances, he
will largely secure himself.
The maximum you can do to
him is to cause damage as a result
of negligence.
If these amounts are insignificant,
then, as a rule, our
law enforcement agencies will not seriously
engage in the search for these
funds and will not engage in
serious investigation.
By small amounts I mean
cash in the amount of one
or several hundred thousand
rubles, but naturally less.
At the same time, for
small, this can be quite
significant for their activities,
and their loss can
affect the enterprise
in the most negative way.
The only thing you will most
likely get in court is to recover,
compensate for the damage by deducting
the employee’s salary that has
caused you the damage from
the salary that he will
receive at the new job if
you fired him.
And since salaries in our country,
as a rule, official salaries
are significantly different from
real salaries, you will officially
receive a drop of penny
for many years.
Therefore, when you form the structure
of interaction, the structure
of the organization of your business
processes, the structure
of interaction of various services,
when you think about how certain
operations should be carried
out with material resources,
you should try to protect
yourself from such
cases as possible.
That is, either it should
be employees you trust 100%,
or it should be you, or
that these amounts of
cash, or material values
that can be lost, should
be small, that is, not
be critical to your
business.
Naturally, it is desirable
to carry out such operations
on non-cash payment as much
as possible.
In general, today, often,
and this is generally a good trend,
it becomes easier and safer
for entrepreneurs to work
as much as possible.
The tax burden with the maintenance
of a simplified tax system has
actually decreased, and if you
compute your financial plans,
your actions, your business
plan, then, as a rule, such a
tax burden is quite powerful
for an entrepreneur who
knows how to earn money.
Let’s consider with you the issues
of hiring key employees of your organization.
The first person in the organization
is, of course, the CEO, in other
words, the head of
the organization, because
this position can be called
in a different way.
President and so on.
It often really happens that founders, business
creators are more profitable to
hire an experienced, competent professional
than to engage themselves in the
development of the business,
its development.
The effect of the work
of an experienced professional,
whom you know from his previous
activities, from the results
of activities that
could really be evaluated,
can be much higher than the
result you can by taking over
the management of the organization,
for its development.
Therefore, when concluding a contract
with such a company manager, you
should clearly think
about his responsibility, clearly
think about those moments that
will be characteristic of his effectiveness,
so that in the shortest possible
time you can understand whether
this manager really achieves
the goals you set before
the organization
and before him accordingly.
Of course, this is a rather complex
question, and here you need to
resort to the services of professionals
who can help you
test this specialist.
Recommendations are very important
here, very important, I will repeat,
those performance indicators,
which you can learn from some
sources, performance indicators
on his previous work.
And building relationships with
such a leader, you must put,
again, clear deadlines and
clear criteria for its effectiveness.
That is, if you can’t evaluate
something, you can’t count
something, then this, with enough
confidence, can’t be an indicator
of the effectiveness
of a person’s work.
In this case, it is important
to conclude a temporary
employment contract with the manager.
The law gives us
this opportunity.
If you do not know this manager
well enough, then it makes sense
to sign a contract for a minimum
period of one year.
The trial period for managers
is 6 months, which is the period
in which you can dismiss an
employee without explaining
the reasons.
For ordinary employees, this period
is 3 months.
For the managers of the organization,
for the deputy managers, for the
chief accountant, this term
may be 6 months, but not more.
You can also, after the end
of the trial period, at your wish
and also actually without explaining
reasons, dismiss the manager.
But at the same time you will have
to compensate him, pay him compensation
in the amount of three monthly
salaries.
The head of the organization
can also submit a request for care
at any time at his own request.
He must do so at least one
month before the
expected period of dismissal.
The head of the organization,
as I said, bears full material
responsibility for the direct
damage caused to the
organization.
In cases stipulated by federal
laws, the head of the organization
shall compensate for losses
caused by his guilty actions.
The calculation of these losses
is carried out in accordance
with the norms provided
for by the civil law.
The next key person in your organization
is the chief accountant.
They are subject to similar rules
as the head of the organization.
And to hire a chief accountant
should be approached as scrupulously
as to hire a head of
the organization.
The fact is that often
beginners directly maintain
a permanent chief
accountant and pay
him a full salary.
Today, on the labour market, a
more or less qualified accountant
requires a salary of no
less than $800 per month.
Many do not have this in their power,
when the company is just beginning to
develop, has not yet reached the
desired profitability indicators.
Therefore, many entrepreneurs
hire so-called
freelancers.
These are accountants who work at
home and carry out the accounting
and tax reporting of several
organizations simultaneously.
As a rule, such accountants do not formally
formalize their employment relationship
with the entrepreneur.
And if they are registered, they are not
officially the chief accountants and do
not appear in the register of tax authorities.
And entrepreneurs, unfortunately,
often get into such a situation
that they can not test
the accountant, can not determine
the level of his qualification,
they agree with him on keeping
accounting and tax accounting.
This accountant has been keeping
accounting for three months
or six months, receiving his remuneration.
And when some unpleasant
situations arise, this accountant
disappears and becomes simply
inaccessible, does not contact
and refuses to perform its
duties and in any way to
interact with the entrepreneur.
The entrepreneur cannot
take any action against
it.
In this situation, the entrepreneur
usually bears significant
financial losses.
He has to hire other accountants
to figure out what the
fugitive accountant has done.
He has to break the mess in the relationship
with the tax authorities and
so on and so on.
This is very unpleasant.
Unfortunately, this situation can arise
not only with freelancers,
but also with accountants who came to
you for a permanent job, but did not
want to be officially registered as the
chief accountant, so that information
about them was entered in the
register of legal entities, in the
register, which is in the tax inspection.
Such a accountant can also
sit quietly in your office,
perform basic accounting
work, make payments and
some invoices, bills and other
primary documentation,
receive their $800 and above
a month, and at a critical
moment can also escape.
You can’t actually do anything
with it either.
Therefore, when hiring a chief
accountant, you should try to
do everything possible to determine
his qualification level as reliably
as possible.
These may be recommendations from
your good acquaintances who know
this person.
This may be the advice of other
accountants you know.
These may be recommendations from
auditors or third parties you
can trust in the objectivity
of their assessments.
You can also contact specialists,
you can contact recruitment agencies
that have experience in the selection
of accountants, you can contact
audit firms, you can simply
contact your familiar accountant,
who you trust, with a
request to test
your candidate.
This will safeguard you to some extent.
Today, there are quite a lot
of free-to-access accounting
tests on the Internet
and you can also
use them.
This is also one way.
Only have to bear in mind that these
accounting tests can be conditionally
divided into two classes.
Some refer to general accounting
rules.
Any accountant must answer to
such tests with a score not less
than 80 percent.
Because these tests contain
the basics of accounting, which
is called backpoints that every
accountant should know as a report.
There are narrower, more
specialized accounting tests and
they can vary depending
on the specifics of a particular
business.
Of course, a accountant who
has not worked for a long time in
this field will not be able to
respond to such tests with a high score
above 80%.
However, this does not mean
that he is inadequate.
Here you need to keep in mind that a
accountant, as well as a lawyer, does not
need to know all the norms on the teeth.
He must be able to understand them,
he must be able to familiarize himself
with some documents, link them with
other accounting norms and build
a clear and competent
scheme of actions.
And then such a qualified accountant
will cope with those situations
that he did not deal
with before.
Therefore, such special tests should
be given to accountants when the accountant
is also tested by an experienced person,
preferably a accountant or
an auditor, one who understands
the essence of the issues.
He will be able to understand whether this
accountant really knows
how to navigate in accounting issues
and find the necessary solutions,
the necessary correct answers.
In terms of accounting,
one point that is becoming
increasingly
important is to be
noted.
The fact is that today, when the
opportunities for making money in banks
became less, when the bank
margin has significantly decreased
and there is a tendency to
further decline, banks
have turned their face to lending
small.
And you can get loans today for the
development of small without any
special obligations, without collateral
in some banks.
And in this situation for banking
employees, for assessing
your solvency, literacy in
keeping your management and
accounting becomes increasingly
important.
It is important to keep not
only accounting, but also financial
management documentation.
Even if you do not show all of
the assets in your financial
statements, it is reflected in
your internal management financial
statements.
This can serve as a basis for
bank employees, for credit
department employees to make
a decision, for or against
you.
That is, if they see in this
documentation that you
really have a normal cash flow,
if they see the dynamics of
business development, see
some assets that you have already
acquired, whether it is computers
or some other equipment,
even if you have not put it
on the balance sheet, then
they will most likely
make a positive decision
about your lending.
In general, in all relationships
with your employees you need to be
as specific and clear as possible
on all issues.
This is the distribution of duties, and
writing instructions, and keeping documentation,
and the distribution of tasks.
The more clearly you write all
this in the instructions,
in the work regulations, the easier
it will be for you to work, the easier
it will be for you to control the
work of your employees, to
evaluate their effectiveness and
the less conflict situations
you will have.
The fact is that when the manager gives
a task to another employee, often
there is a situation that the manager
meant one thing, the employee
understood another.
Every person has their own
perception, and you need to remember
about it, you need to make a discount
on it, and therefore you should
be in all your tasks, in all
relationships with employees to
be as accurate as possible and
try to get feedback.
In addition, the instructions of the
office can greatly help you avoid
unpleasant situations in
the relationship with the
supervisory authorities, because
if in your instructions of
the employee were assigned certain
duties, and the employee
did not fulfill them, and the
supervisory authorities make claims
to you on certain issues, then
you, referring to this
instruction, can secure
yourself from a certain
share of responsibility for
those actions, for which
you are claimed.
This responsibility
by the supervisory authorities
may be entrusted to the employee
who had to perform the necessary
actions on his official
instructions.
I would also like to address
some principles of
business safety.
They again concern the registration
of legal documents, both contractual
and taxation, accounts,
invoices and other financial documents.
Unfortunately, it is still necessary
to face this situation,
especially in markets where there
is a certain product deficit,
when entrepreneurs, wishing to get
some goods at a favorable price
faster, do not pay due attention
to the verification of documents
provided by the seller of
the goods.
Businesses are still burning
on it.
Therefore, in all relationships with
your partners, do not hesitate to
check the authority of employees
of your contractors, do not hesitate
to check the founding documents, companies
with which you interact
and clearly control the
deadlines and other arrangements
reached by you.
This will help you avoid unpleasant
situations.
We had such a precedent not so
long ago, when we were approached
by entrepreneurs who paid for
some deficit of goods, raw materials,
once only talking live with the
sellers and actually received a
bill for payment of this deficit
of raw materials.
It is natural to assume that in
this situation their contractors
could be fraudsters.
It really happened.
They removed the office for a
short period of time, they accepted
potential buyers in this office, they
negotiated with them, then they
gave them a bill and after receiving
the money they disappeared.
This became possible precisely because
entrepreneurs, buyers did not check
the powers of these persons, did
not check their constituent documents,
and at all behaved completely
unchecked.
This is more like a story
about some 90s, about the
beginning of commercial relations
in Russia, but in reality
it is now quite common,
so be careful.
The next point of our program is the
relationship with the
supervisory authorities.
These include tax inspection,
extra-budgetary funds, customs,
police, trade inspection,
CSA, labour inspection and some
other more specific
bodies that have the right
to control one or another
activity of entrepreneurs.
In all relationships with these bodies,
a very important principle is also.
Conscious means protected.
The better you know your rights and responsibilities,
the easier it is for you to interact
with them, the less risks you
are taking.
One of the most serious forms
of liability that an enterprise
bears is administrative
liability.
Administrative responsibility is
imposed on the head of the organization.
If it is an individual
entrepreneur, then
directly to him.
This responsibility is more
serious than the responsibility
of the founders of an LLC or a joint-
stock company or any other
legal entity.
Because, as we have said, with the
minimum charter capital, the founders
do not actually risk anything.
Administrative liability may be imposed
for various violations of the legislation,
and for violation of the deadlines
for submitting accounting reports,
and for violation of the provisions
and rules of the SS, and
the like.
This responsibility is imposed
by officials and must be fulfilled.
Avoiding it is quite difficult.
Therefore, to protect yourself,
you must, as I said, first of all,
very clearly write down all your
relationships with employees,
all official instructions,
and know and comply with all
the norms of relevant laws
and other regulations.
In relations with
all supervisory authorities,
it is of great importance how
confident you feel about
the specifics of a particular
activity.
The fact is that very controlling
authorities, especially our brave
militia, like to take what is
called a whistle-up, to scare.
And the entrepreneur is not
prepared enough, he is lost
and often gives himself and brings
even greater trouble
to himself than they really
are.
Therefore, if you know your rights
and duties clearly, know the laws
well, you will feel more confident
and you will be able to calmly and
skillfully object to your controllers.
As practice shows, controllers
in such a situation begin to
respect you more, they are said
to be sedentary, calmed down,
and your conversation with them
will be built more constructively.
As a result, you will lose less
money and your business
will be less exposed
to risks.
Therefore, again, the
entrepreneur should know all
the main regulatory acts that
relate to his activity.
Don’t be lazy to study them, there are not so many.
For each business activity there
is its own limited range
of these normative legal acts,
and their knowledge will help you.
This is where our course is finished.
Thanks for your attention.
We hope that it will help you
feel more confident in the
jungle of Russian business.
Success to you!